Added information about security aspects in Ephemeral Containers (#42357)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/workloads/pods/ephemeral-containers.md

* Learn how to [debug pods using ephemeral containers](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-running-pod/#ephemeral-container).

### Kubernetes Ephemeral Container Security

> Attempting to debug a Pod and realizing that you can't install curl due to security settings has to be a meme at this point. Good security practices are always nice but it often comes at the cost of usability. To the point where some may even solve this problem by installing debug tools into their production images. Shudders.

Reviewer: Please manually wrap long lines like this.

Long lines are difficult to comment, to translate, to track changes.

Kubernetes has introduced a new concept called ephemeral containers to deal with this problem. Ephemeral containers are temporary containers that can be attached after a Pod has been created. Rejoice! We can now attach a temporary container with all the tools which we desire. While the applications container may have "annoying security features" like a read only file system the ephemeral container can enjoy all the freedom which writing files entails. I love this feature so I need to upgrade my cluster immediately

## Digging Deeper

Now that we have the new feature we can start a ephemeral container in any Pod we like  

> kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
> kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```shell
kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28
```
````

> We get a shell and life is now much simpler, but wait a minute. This post is not about how to use ephemeral containers, there are enough of those already, but rather the security implications of enabling ephemeral containers. Let's have a look at the YAML for the Pod that we created the ephemeral container in.

Reviewer: Please carefully read the documentation style in the contribution guide.
Please avoid using 'we', avoid using word like 'simpler', 'simple', 'easy', and so on.
Please use simple precise English. For example, ", there are enough of those already, " isn't something you want to talk about. It is irrelevant to the topic of this page.
"We get a shell and life is now much simpler ... ", no, we don't appreciate this wordy statements.

apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: ephemeral-demo
  spec:
    ...
      ephemeralContainers:
        - name: debugger-r59b7
            image: busybox:1.28
                imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
                    stdin: true
                        terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log
                            terminationMessagePolicy: File

>                                 tty: true

Reviewer: The indentation is totally a mess.
Please check.

## OPA Gatekeeper

OPA Gatekeeper does not require any code changes as all of its policies are written in rego. It's sub project Gateekper Library does however have to be updated. The library contains an implementation of the common Pod Security Policies. This includes policies like not allowing containers in privileged mode. The issue with the all of the policies is that they currently only check containers specified in initContainers and containers, analyze the following rego as an example.

The good news is that this is a pretty easy fix, the bad news is that it requires end users to update the policies pulled from the library.

## Kyverno

Kyverno seems to have resolved the issues faster. Compared to OPA Gatekeeper however it did require a small code change which means that version 1.5.3 or later is needed to write policies for ephemeral containers. They have also updated their policy library to include checking ephemeral containers. Kyverno has done a great job solving these issues quickly. It does still require end users to update however.

> 

Reviewer: No. We don't talk about community solutions that are out of the kubernetes project.
There are simply too many of them, we cannot afford to cover or to track.

## Pod Security Policies

Pod Security Policies used to be the default policy tool for Kubernetes, and a lot of projects have rules based on Pod Security Policies (PSP). However if you are relying on PSP in a modern cluster you should really start looking for other options like OPA Gatekeeper or Kyverno. PSP has been deprecated since Kubernetes v1.21 and will be removed in v1.25.

If PSP is your only policy tool and you are planning to upgrade to v1.23, don't. As PSP is deprecated no new features have been added, and that includes policy enforcement on ephemeral containers. Which means that any security context in an ephemeral container is allowed no matter the PSP in the cluster. The PSP below will have no affect when adding an ephemeral container to a Pod which is privileged.  
   

> apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
> kind: PodSecurityPolicy
> metadata:
>   name: default
>   spec:
>     privileged: false
>       seLinux:
>           rule: RunAsAny
>             supplementalGroups:
>                 rule: RunAsAny
>                   runAsUser:
>                       rule: RunAsAny
>                         fsGroup:
>                             rule: RunAsAny
>                               volumes:
>                                 - '*'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
  spec:
    privileged: false
      seLinux:
          rule: RunAsAny
            supplementalGroups:
                rule: RunAsAny
                  runAsUser:
                      rule: RunAsAny
                        fsGroup:
                            rule: RunAsAny
                              volumes:
                                - '*'
```
```

## RBAC

Disallowing ephemeral containers with RBAC could be an option if the feature is not needed and it is not possible to disable the feature completely. The KEP-277: Ephemeral Containers state the following about using RBAC to disable ephemeral containers.

Cluster administrators will be expected to choose from one of the following mechanisms for restricting usage of ephemeral containers:

Use RBAC to control which users are allowed to access the /ephemeralcontainers subresource.
Write or use a third-party admission controller to allow or reject Pod updates that modify ephemeral containers based on the content of the update.
Disable the feature using the EphemeralContainers feature gate.
RBAC is additive which means that it is not possible to remove permissions from a role. This type of mitigation obviously does not matter if all users a cluster admin, which they should not be, so we assume that new roles are created for the cluster consumers. In this case having a look at the existing roles can be enough to make sure that the subresource /ephemeralcontainers is not included in the role.

> apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
> kind: ClusterRole
> metadata:
>   name: edit
>   rules:
>   - apiGroups:
>     - ""
>       resources:
>         - pods
>           - pods/attach
>             - pods/exec
>               - pods/portforward
>                 - pods/proxy
>                   verbs:
>                     - create
>                       - delete
>                         - deletecollection
>                           - patch
>                             - update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: edit
  rules:
  - apiGroups:
    - ""
      resources:
        - pods
          - pods/attach
            - pods/exec
              - pods/portforward
                - pods/proxy
                  verbs:
                    - create
                    - delete
                    - deletecollection
                    - patch
                    - update
```
```
Not sure the indentations correct or not. Seems weird.

Ephemeral containers are created using a special ephemeralcontainers handler in the API rather than by adding them directly to pod.spec, so it's not possible to add an ephemeral container using kubectl edit.

The simplest method to add an ephemeral container with a security context to a Pod is to use the Go client. A couple of lines of code can add a new ephemeral container running as privileged or use any other security context setting which is to your liking.

> package main

Reviewer 2: This kind of code block is hard to read.

> 

Reviewer: This is a good blog article if you want to publish it somewhere else.
However, the taste of this page is very different from what we host on the k8s.io/docs website.

Author: @tengqm @windsonsea  thanks for ur doc review it's my first documentation for an open source project so I didn't know the guidelines so I may made some mistakes and I  will follow ur suggestions for the  changes proposed

## Digging Deeper

Now that we have the new feature we can start a ephemeral container in any Pod we like  

```shell
kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28
```

We get a shell and life is now much simpler, but wait a minute. This post is not about how to use ephemeral containers, there are enough of those already, but rather the security implications of enabling ephemeral containers. Let's have a look at the YAML for the Pod that we created the ephemeral container in.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: ephemeral-demo
spec:
  ...
  ephemeralContainers:
  - name: debugger-r59b7
    image: busybox:1.28
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    stdin: true
    terminationMessagePath: /dev/termination-log

>     terminationMessagePolicy: File

Reviewer: Why do we need to explicitly specify these attributes?

    tty: true
```
                            
Interesting, there is a new field called ephemeralContainers in the Pod definition. This new field contains a list of containers similar to initContainers and containers. It is not identical as there are certain options which are not available, refer to the API documentation for more information. It does however allow configuration of the container security context, which could in theory allow a bad actor to escalate the container's privileges. This should not affect those of us who use a policy enforcement tool right? The answer is yes and no depending on the tool and version that is being used. It also depends on if you are using policies from the project's library or policies developed in house.

> 

Reviewer: Please save the irrelevant statements such as "interesting".
The statement about "new" is warranted to decay pretty soon.
Please try use backticks for field names for readability.

```
The `ephemeralContainers` field in the spec of a Pod ...
```

Reviewer: "This should not affect those of us who use a policy enforcement tool right? The answer is yes and no depending on the tool and version that is being used."

Please just state the facts in plain English.

Use RBAC to control which users are allowed to access the /ephemeralcontainers subresource.
Write or use a third-party admission controller to allow or reject Pod updates that modify ephemeral containers based on the content of the update.
Disable the feature using the EphemeralContainers feature gate.
RBAC is additive which means that it is not possible to remove permissions from a role. This type of mitigation obviously does not matter if all users a cluster admin, which they should not be, so we assume that new roles are created for the cluster consumers. In this case having a look at the existing roles can be enough to make sure that the subresource /ephemeralcontainers is not included in the role.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: edit
  rules:
  - apiGroups:
    - ""
      resources:
        - pods
          - pods/attach
            - pods/exec
              - pods/portforward
                - pods/proxy
                  verbs:
                    - create
                    - delete
                    - deletecollection
                    - patch

>                     - update

Reviewer: The indentation of the snippet is a complete mess.

Ephemeral containers are created using a special ephemeralcontainers handler in the API rather than by adding them directly to pod.spec, so it's not possible to add an ephemeral container using kubectl edit.

The simplest method to add an ephemeral container with a security context to a Pod is to use the Go client. A couple of lines of code can add a new ephemeral container running as privileged or use any other security context setting which is to your liking
```
package main

> import (

Reviewer: Is this Go program helpful to understand the concept of ephemeral containers?
I don't get the point.

are always nice but it often comes at the cost of usability. 

Kubernetes has introduced a  concept called ephemeral containers to deal
with this problem. Ephemeral containers are temporary containers that can be
attached after a Pod has been created. you can now attach a temporary
container with all the tools which we desire. While the applications container 
may have "annoying security features" like a read only file system the ephemeral 
container can enjoy all the freedom which writing files entails.

Now that you have the  feature you can start a ephemeral container in any Pod you like  

```shell
kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28
```

Once you gain access to a shell, managing tasks becomes easier. However,  Now, let's go ahead and take a closer look at the YAML representation of the Pod where you created the ephemeral container. 

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: ephemeral-demo
spec:
  ...
  ephemeralContainers:
  - name: debugger-r59b7
    image: busybox:1.28
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    stdin: true
    tty: true
```
                            

> In the latest Pod definition, a field called `ephemeralContainers` has been introduced. Similar to `initContainers` and `containers`, this field contains a list of containers. However, it is important to note that `ephemeralContainers` has certain options not available in the other fields. For more details, please refer to the API documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `ephemeralContainers` field is imilar to `initContainers` and `containers` in that
it contains a list of containers. However, the `ephemeralContainers` field has certain
options not available in the other fields. For more details, please refer to the API
documentation.
```

> One notable feature of `ephemeralContainers` is its ability to configure the container security context. This means that in theory, a malicious actor could potentially escalate the container's privileges. However, the impact of this depends on the policy enforcement tool being used. If you are using a robust policy enforcement tool, it should be able to mitigate such risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One notable feature of `ephemeralContainers` is its ability to configure the security context.
In theory, a malicious actor could escalate the container's privileges. This risk can
be effectively mitigated by a robust policy enforcement tool.
```

> The answer to whether it affects users of policy enforcement tools varies. It depends on the specific tool and its version, as well as whether you are using policies from the project's library or custom policies developed in-house. To ensure security, it is advisable to review the policies and keep the policy enforcement tool up-to-date with the latest security measures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Other factors to consider include the tool version, as well as the policies enforced.
It is recommended to carefully review the policies and keep the tool up-to-date
with the latest security measures.
```

start looking for other options like OPA Gatekeeper or Kyverno. 
PSP has been deprecated since Kubernetes v1.21 and will be removed in v1.25.

If PSP is your only policy tool and you are planning to upgrade to v1.23,
don't. As PSP is deprecated no new features have been added, and that
includes policy enforcement on ephemeral containers. Which means that
any security context in an ephemeral container is allowed no matter 
the PSP in the cluster. The PSP below will have no affect when adding
an ephemeral container to a Pod which is privileged.  
   
```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  privileged: false
  seLinux:
    rule: RunAsAny
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: RunAsAny
  runAsUser:
    rule: RunAsAny
  fsGroup:
    rule: RunAsAny
  volumes:
  - '*'

```

## RBAC

Disallowing ephemeral containers with RBAC could be an option if
the feature is not needed and it is not possible to disable the
feature completely. The KEP-277: Ephemeral Containers state the
following about using RBAC to disable ephemeral containers.

Cluster administrators will be expected to choose from one of the

> following mechanisms for restricting usage of ephemeral containers:

Reviewer 3: Is it possible to format this as a quote in markdown?

Either way it would be good to link to the source, https://git.k8s.io/enhancements/keps/sig-node/277-ephemeral-containers#configurable-security-policy

> following mechanisms for restricting usage of ephemeral containers:

Reviewer 4: Even better: rewrite the quoted text to match our docs [style guide](https://kubernetes.io/docs/contribute/style/style-guide/).

“As a cluster operator, you are expected to choose from one of” for example.

can be enough to make sure that the subresource /ephemeralcontainers
is not included in the role.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: edit
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - pods
  - pods/attach
  - pods/exec
  - pods/portforward
  - pods/proxy
  verbs:
  - create
  - delete
  - deletecollection
  - patch
  - update

```
## Checking Policy Enforcement

Let's say that you upgraded your cluster and informed all end users
of the great new feature. How do you know that the correct policies
are enforced in accordance to your security practices. You may have 
been aware of the API changes and taken the correct precautionary 
steps. Or you just updated Kyverno and it's policies out of pure
happenstance. Either way it is good to trust but verify that
it is not for example possible to create a privileged ephemeral 
container. Annoyingly the debug command does not expose any options
to set any security context configuration, so we need another option.
Ephemeral containers cannot be defined in a Pod when it is created 
and it can neither be added with an update. We need some other

> method to create these specific ephemeral containers.

Reviewer: The above paragraph still reads like a blog post.

Reviewer 4: (if you want to write a blog article instead @deepak4566, that's an option you have)

* Learn how to [debug pods using ephemeral containers](/docs/tasks/debug/debug-application/debug-running-pod/#ephemeral-container).

> ### Kubernetes Ephemeral Container Security

Reviewer 3: This is indented under "What's Next" but should probably be its own top level heading,

```
## Ephemeral container security
### Pod Security Policies
### RBAC
etc.
```

> ### Kubernetes Ephemeral Container Security

Reviewer 4: I would move this into [an existing] page within https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/ and then have a _link_ to that new section.

Attempting to debug a Pod and realizing that you can't install curl due to 
security settings has to be a meme at this point. Good security practices 
are always nice but it often comes at the cost of usability. 

Kubernetes has introduced a  concept called ephemeral containers to deal
with this problem. Ephemeral containers are temporary containers that can be
attached after a Pod has been created. You can attach one or more temporary
container with all the tools you need. While the applications container 
may have "annoying security features" like a read only file system, an ephemeral 
container can enjoy all the freedom which writing files entails.

Now that you have the  feature you can start a ephemeral container in any Pod you like  

```shell
kubectl run ephemeral-demo --image=k8s.gcr.io/pause:3.1 --restart=Never
kubectl debug -it ephemeral-demo --image=busybox:1.28
```

> Once you gain access to a Shell, you can perform management operations in it.

Reviewer 4: Is this right?
```suggestion
Once you're running a shell inside the ephemeral container, you can try some troubleshooting.
You can do debug operations even if the main container doesn't include a shell (for example: 
the `pause` container image doesn't include a shell binary)
```

The following example manifest contains a Pod where an ephemeral container
for debugging is included.

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Pod
metadata:
  name: ephemeral-demo
spec:
  ...
  ephemeralContainers:
  - name: debugger-r59b7
    image: busybox:1.28
    imagePullPolicy: IfNotPresent
    stdin: true

>     tty: true

Reviewer 4: Does this work as a manifest?

```
                            
The `ephemeralContainers` field is imilar to `initContainers` and `containers` in that
it contains a list of containers. However, the `ephemeralContainers` field has certain
options not available in the other fields. For more details, please refer to the API
documentation.

One notable feature of `ephemeralContainers` is its ability to configure the security context.
In theory, a malicious actor could escalate the container's privileges. This risk can

> be effectively mitigated by a robust policy enforcement tool.

Reviewer 3: Optional: [Pod Security Admission](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/security/pod-security-admission/) covers ephemeral containers, if you want to point to that.

an ephemeral container to a Pod which is privileged.  
   
```yaml
apiVersion: policy/v1beta1
kind: PodSecurityPolicy
metadata:
  name: default
spec:
  privileged: false
  seLinux:
    rule: RunAsAny
  supplementalGroups:
    rule: RunAsAny
  runAsUser:
    rule: RunAsAny
  fsGroup:
    rule: RunAsAny
  volumes:
  - '*'

```

## RBAC

Disallowing ephemeral containers with RBAC could be an option if
the feature is not needed and it is not possible to disable the
feature completely. The KEP-277: Ephemeral Containers state the
following about using RBAC to disable ephemeral containers.

Cluster administrators will be expected to choose from one of the
following mechanisms for restricting usage of ephemeral containers:

Use RBAC to control which users are allowed to access the
/ephemeralcontainers subresource.
Write or use a third-party admission controller to allow 
or reject Pod updates that modify ephemeral containers based
on the content of the update.
Disable the feature using the EphemeralContainers feature gate.
RBAC is additive which means that it is not possible to remove
permissions from a role. This type of mitigation obviously does

> not matter if all users a cluster admin, which they should not

Reviewer 3: "all users are cluster admins"

is not included in the role.

```yaml
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: edit
rules:
- apiGroups:
  - ""
  resources:
  - pods
  - pods/attach
  - pods/exec
  - pods/portforward
  - pods/proxy
  verbs:
  - create
  - delete
  - deletecollection
  - patch
  - update

```
## Checking Policy Enforcement

Let's say that you upgraded your cluster and informed all end users
of the great new feature. How do you know that the correct policies
are enforced in accordance to your security practices. You may have 
been aware of the API changes and taken the correct precautionary 
steps. Or you just updated Kyverno and it's policies out of pure
happenstance. Either way it is good to trust but verify that
it is not for example possible to create a privileged ephemeral 
container. Annoyingly the debug command does not expose any options
to set any security context configuration, so we need another option.
Ephemeral containers cannot be defined in a Pod when it is created 
and it can neither be added with an update. We need some other
method to create these specific ephemeral containers.

> Ephemeral containers are created using a special ephemeralcontainers 
> handler in the API rather than by adding them directly to pod.spec,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
You create an ephemeral container using a special `ephemeralcontainers`
subresource of the Pod API (rather than by adding them directly to the `.spec` of a Pod),
```

> so it's not possible to add an ephemeral container using kubectl edit.

Reviewer 4: Is this right?
```suggestion
so it's not possible to add (or remove) an ephemeral container using `kubectl edit`.
```

Reviewer 3: Yes, but also it's not possible to remove ephemeral containers by any method.

Reviewer 4: Let's document that as a thing to watch out for: once an ephemeral container is there, you're stuck with it.
